V1.02B Jan 1997 - Minor upgrade & bug fix

 .  Demo mode sounds can be turned on/off.

 .  Bug fix, HA ! Put the wrong eating dot sample in.. oops we all make
    mistakes.

V1.02A Jan 1997 - Minor upgrade & bug fix

 .  Bug fix, Audio detect routine changed slightly.

 .  Bug fix, Ghosts reverse direction correctly (!) after a power
    pill is eaten.

V1.02 Dec 1996 - Minor upgrade & bug fix

 .  Bug fix, new joystick routines. Designed to work more accurately
    with Gravis game pad. Should work better with all joysticks.

 .  Bug fix, colour of dots on the 5th maze should be cyan.

 .  Bug fix, after eating a power pill, then eating a ghosts the
    eyes should start moving in the same direction as the ghost
    was moving before the power pill was eaten.

 .  Bug fix, oops I used a signed integer to store the size of expanded
    memory available. Should have been an unsigned int. Causes problems
    when you have more than 32Meg available in XMS.

New Additions

 .  New samples of dots being eaten, much more 'authentic' sound.

 .  New joystick calibration routines.

 .  New joystick sensitivity setting on 'Config' screen.



V1.01 Feb 16th 1996 - Several improvements & minor bug fixes

Bug fixes
 
 .  Bug fix, ghost priorities Blinky appears always on top, followed by
    Pinky, Inky & Sue.

 .  Bug fix, collision detect turned off after last dot eaten, caused
    a problem if the last dot eaten was a power pill and a ghost was
    on top of it. You would get 200 points.

 .  Bug fix. On release of extended memory, an attempt could be made to 
    release extended memory even if it wasn't allocated. This only occured 
    when sound was disabled.

 .  Bug fix. Bottom line of screen was incorrectly drawn, a 1 pixel line 
    was missed off the fruit. Noticable on the Pretzel.

 .  Bug fix, when MsP is eaten by ghost, dying animation takes as long
    as the dying sound.

 .  Bug fix, Inky was leaving pit before Pinky.
 
 .  Bug fix, ghost eyes at level start now face correct direction.
 
 .  Bug fix, ghosts on level one can't catch MsP even if she's slowed
    down by eating dots.
  
 .  Bug fix, letter 'E' removed from ghosts names.

 .  Bug fix, ghosts eyes move back to their respective corners in
    the central pit, or to the center for Blinky & Pinky.

 .  Bug fix, ghosts reverse at 7, or 5 seconds, and again 20 seconds later.

 .  Bug fix, ghost eyes can reverse direction. If ghost eyes are returning
    to the 'pit' when counter hits zero, the ghosts and eyes will make a 
    direction change.


New Additions

 .  New messages on detecting soundcard, also some more error checking
    if a problem with the soundcard is detected.

 .  New samples made of background siren, powerup and extra life 'ping'.
    original siren sound was a bit rough.

 .  Extra life sound is 10 'pings' long.

 .  Fruits movement speed around the maze slowed down a fraction. 

 .  Hidden 'cheat' mode type in the password when the game is playing and
    press enter, the MsPac's at the bottom of the screen will change to
    face upwards !  The following keys then do the following things... 
    F1 - Advance level, F2 - Add a life  F3 - Start a fruit bouncing on
    ( if there isn't a fruit or fruit's score already there )

 .  Ghost timings leaving 'pit' corrected.

 .  Collision detect between a ghost and MsP changed, the ghost has to 
    cover more of MsP for collision to be detected and a life lost.

 .  Ghosts flash time is independant of the speed of a ghost.

 .  Ghost frightened times corrected to 6/5/4/3/2/1/0 seconds.
    A zero second ghost just immediately changes direction.

 .  Ghosts Flash 5 times before changing, if they've got enough time 
    before they turn back, and speed of flash is slower.

 .  Ghost flash for 2 seconds maximum, flash white 5 times only.
    They change back to regular colour after the last white flash.

 .  Ghost flash times corrected on levels.

 .  Ghosts are fightened for ZERO seconds on levels higher than 17.

 .  Configure screen now allows changing the start number of lives

 .  Configure screen now allows starting level from 1 to 29
 
 .  'GAME OVER' - now coloured red.

 .  MsPac speeds up a fraction when ghosts are flashing.

 .  Ghosts don't slow down in the tunnels on level 4 or above.

 .  MsPac is left on the screen when completed level flashes.

 .  Ghosts STOP moving when another is eaten, including their sprites.

 .  Length of time a fruit's value is displayed after eating is shorter.

 .  'PLAYER ONE' not displayed on 'GAME OVER' if only a 1 player game.

 .  New directions for Blinky to follow at game start.

 .  Some fruit sprites were reversed, the banana now faces the right way !!

 .  Powerup sounds don't restart when another power pill is eaten.

 .  Powerup sound restarts when a ghosts eyes return to the maze.
    While returning eyes make the whoop-whoop sound. The 'whoop-whoop'
    sound does not start until the eyes are returning to the maze
    after the 'eat ghost' sound ends, the sound stops once the eyes
    return to the maze and the powerup sound restarts.

 .  Eating of 64 then 176 dots starts a fruit bouncing onto the screen.

 .  Amazing, you've read this far. Ok the cheat code is to type
    eggs <and press enter> when the game is in play. F1/f2/f3 do
    cheat 'things'.

 .  Eating 180, 212 and 228 dots increases pitch of background siren.

 .  If MsPac is eaten while ghosts are flashing, the ghosts will
    stop flashing ie. they're colour freezes.


