
Windows Logo Changer v3.0 (WINLOGO for Win3.1x and Win95)
---------------------------------------------------------

(c) Copyright, June 1996, Dr. A. Olowofoyeku.

Documentation
-------------

This program is a utility to facilitate the process
of making changes to the Windows 3.1x and Windows 95
start up logo. It is written for MS-Windows 3.1x, and 
Windows 95, contains both a DOS and a Windows module, 
all within the same executable WINLOGO.EXE. If run from DOS, 
the DOS module executes and if run from Windows, the Windows
module executes. In Windows95, the Windows version executes
all the time.

NOTE: The program may or may not work correctly under Windows 3.0, 
and will most certainly NOT work under pre-3.0 versions of Windows.

The Windows 3.1x startup logo is actually just a bitmap,
(in an RLE 4 encoded format) which is written into WIN.COM
by Windows itself, or any other program, such as WINLOGO,
that can make changes to the startup logo. The process
is a bit involved if done through Windows, and is far
from a straightforward business.  With WINLOGO, it simply
involves selecting an RLE encoded bitmap from the menu,
and the program takes care of the rest. The whole process
takes just about 5 seconds.


The Windows95 logo is an ordinary bitmaps with specficiations:
320x400x256 colours.


THE LOGO FILE
-------------
The default logo that Windows uses is called VGALOGO.RLE
and exists in your Windows System directory. WINLOGO can
always restore this if you choose it from the menu.
However, WINLOGO also allows you to have such things as
company logos, funny pictures, and the like, as your
Windows startup logo, instead of the boring one that is
supplied with Windows itself. This is because any RLE 4
encoded bitmap file would do just as well as the VGALOGO.RLE
that resides in your Windows System directory.

For Windows 3.1x, you would need some utility, such as 
WINGIF or PAINTSHOP PRO (both Shareware) to convert standard 
Windows Paintbrush bitmap files into RLE 4 format. Under Windows95
any bitmap editor can produce a bitmap in the required format.


NOTE:

Windows 3.1x
------------
  [1] The required format for the Win3.x1 bitmap is RLE 4 (not RLE 8)
      and the bitmap must not contain more than 16 colours.
  [2] The RLE file must not be bigger than 46k in size.
      Otherwise the WINCHG.COM file that will be built will
      not be usable. Windows will not be able to load it, or
      even to start at all. If an RLE file selected from the
      menu is too big, WINLOGO will inform you of this.


Some sample RLE 4 bitmaps are supplied for you to play with.
Most of them are third party bitmaps which I have simply
converted from other formats to the RLE 4 encoded format.

Windows95
---------
The required format for the bitmap is 320x400 in 256 colours. Any other
specification for a bitmap file will not do.


You can use Winlogo's viewer to view Windows .BMP and .RLE
bitmap files, but some .RLE files (those with ZERO or negative
compression) cannot be viewed.


REGISTRATION
------------
WINLOGO is NOT a free program. It is distributed as a 
shareware program. For my purposes, this means that you get 
the program free and if you decide that you want to keep using
it, then you are legally and morally obliged to REGISTER your
copy. I have distributed the program in a completely uncrippled 
state, and there are no nagging messages. I am relying on users 
showing good faith and playing fair. This program took me a long
time to develop and test, and I am not asking for much.

If you find WINLOGO useful and intend to keep using it, I
would ask you to please send the registration fee of œ10.00
(10.00 British Pounds Sterling) or $15.00 (U.S. dollars).

Please forward the fee to me at the address below, or please
end it to you local REGISTRATION SITE (please see REGISTER.TXT
for a list of my world wide registration sites). Please fill in
the form in the file ORDER.FRM (or print the "REGISTRATION FORM"
section in the on-line help).

Payment of this fee confers the following benefits:-
	[a] The satisfaction of being an honest person.
	[b] A clear conscience.
        [c] Good vibes
        [d] You will be very cool indeed


If you feel that WINLOGO is not worth paying for, then I ask you
to please DELETE it from your disks immediately.

Please note that since this program is not crippled or disabled in
any way (and there are no nagging messages), NO DISKS will be sent
when you register.


DISCLAIMER
----------
The program WINLOGO is supplied AS IS. I do not guarantee
anything other than that it will probably not kill YOU. You
use WINLOGO at your own risk. I accept no responsibility for
any damage or loss, physical, financial, or otherwise, that may
result from the use, or purported use of WINLOGO, for any
purpose whatsoever.

If these terms are not acceptable to you, then you have NO
license to use or test WINLOGO. You should DELETE it from
your disks IMMEDIATELY.


For comments, bug reports, and payment, please contact;

Dr. A. Olowofoyeku
268 Horwood,
Newcastle,
Staffs ST5 5BQ
England,
U.K.


E-mail:
-------
Internet:   laa12@keele.ac.uk
	    chief@mep.com

