WinZip(R) version 5.0
Copyright (C) 1991-1993 Nico Mak Computing, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

This file provides information for Shareware Distributors and Disk Vendors
who wish to distribute the WinZip 5.0 package, including an extract from
the license agreement and suggested program descriptions and keywords.

                               Distribution

The complete license agreement is contained in the file LICENSE.TXT.

The following paragraph is an extract from the license agreement
regarding the distribution of the Shareware version of WinZip:

    You are specifically prohibited from charging, or requesting
    donations, for any such copies, however made; and from distributing
    the software and/or documentation with other products (commercial or
    otherwise) without prior written permission, with one exception:
--> Disk Vendors approved by the Association of Shareware Professionals
--> are permitted to redistribute WinZip, subject to the conditions in
--> this license, without specific written permission.

                Suggested One Line Program Description:

Archive utility with built-in ZIP, full drag & drop support, and more.

                          Suggested Keywords:

WinZip Windows ZIP UNZIP ARJ LZH SFX ARC Drag Drop Archive Utility
ASP Shareware Virus Scan

                         Suggested Description

WinZip brings the convenience of Windows to the use of ZIP files.  New
in version 5.0 is PKZIP-compatible built-in zipping, so PKZIP is not
needed for basic archive operations.  WinZip features an a powerful yet
intuitive point-and-click drag-and-drop interface for viewing, running,
extracting, adding, deleting, and testing files in ZIP, LZH, and ARC
files, including self extracting archives.  Optional virus scanning
support is included.

                           Other Information

Requirements:  Windows 3.1 or Windows for Workgroups.  No other programs
               are required for basic ZIP operations.  Optional features
               require external programs, including the shareware
               PKZIP/PKUNZIP product from PKWARE, Inc. or ARJ from Robert
               Jung or LHA.EXE from Haruyasu Yoshizaki.  WinZip interfaces
               to several programs to access ARC files and optionally runs
               most virus scanning utilities, including Windows-based
               virus scanners.

Registration:  $29 (includes shipping) to receive disk with latest version

Author:        Nico Mak Computing, Inc, P.O. Box 919 Bristol, CT 06011-0919
